Documentation: Update spatial indexing example (#12555)
apache/druid: docs/development/geo.md

  -->

> Apache Druid supports two query languages: [Druid SQL](../querying/sql.md) and [native queries](../querying/querying.md).

> > This document describes the feature that is only available in the native language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This document describes a feature that is only available in the native language.
```

Apache Druid supports filtering specially spatially indexed columns based on an origin and a bound.

## Spatial indexing

> In any of the data specs, there is the option of providing spatial dimensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide spatial dimensions in any data spec.
```

  -->

> Apache Druid supports two query languages: [Druid SQL](../querying/sql.md) and [native queries](../querying/querying.md).
> This document describes a feature that is only available in the native language.

Apache Druid supports filtering spatially indexed columns based on an origin and a bound.

This topic explains how to apply spatial filters.
For information on other filters supported by Druid, see [Query filters](../querying/filters.md).

## Spatial indexing

Spatial indexing refers to ingesting data of a spatial data type, such as geometry or geography, into Druid.

> Spatial dimensions are sting columns that contain coordinates separated by a comma.

Reviewer: I think this describes the result of ingestion a spatial dimension. Consider starting with how a spatial dimension gets ingested? Possibly something like, "Spatial dimensions are derived (generated? composed?) from two or more specified input dimensions. Druid stores spatial dimensions as comma-separated values in string columns."

In the ingestion spec, you configure spatial dimensions in the `dimensionsSpec` object of the `dataSchema` component.
For information on how to use the ingestion spec to configure ingestion, see [Ingestion spec reference](../ingestion/ingestion-spec.md).

> For general information on loading data in Druid, see [Ingestion](../ingestion/index.md).

Reviewer: Maybe move these lines to the end of the section, before spatial filters?

```json
{
  "type": "hadoop",
  "dataSchema": {
    "dataSource": "DatasourceName",
    "parser": {
      "type": "string",
      "parseSpec": {
        "format": "json",
        "timestampSpec": {
          "column": "timestamp",
          "format": "auto"
        },
        "dimensionsSpec": {
          "dimensions": [
            {
              "type": "double",
              "name": "x"
            },
            {
              "type": "double",
              "name": "y"
            }
          ],
          "spatialDimensions": [
            {
              "dimName": "coordinates",
              "dims": [
                "x",
                "y"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The `spatialDimensions` array has the following elements:

|Property|Description|Required|
|--------|-----------|--------|
|`dimName`|The name of a spatial dimension. You can construct a spatial dimenion from other dimensions or it may already exist as part of an event. If a spatial dimension already exists, it must be an array of coordinate values.|yes|
|`dims`|The list of dimension names that comprise the spatial dimension.|no|

## Spatial filters

> A filter is a JSON object indicating which rows of data should be included in the computation for a query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [filter](../querying/filters.md) is a JSON object indicating which rows of data should be included in the computation for a query.
```

You can filter on spatial structures, such as rectangles and polygons, using the spatial filter.

> The spatial filter has the following structure:

Reviewer: This is a specific example and not a generic structure. We could add something like the following:

```
"filter": {
  "type": "spatial",
  "dimension": <name_of_spatial_dimension>,
  "bound": <bound_type>
}
```

That way we can have the generic grammar, then introduce a specific example.

}
```

The order of the dimension coordinates in the spatial filter must be equal to the order of the dimension coordinates in the `spatialDimensions` array.

### Bound types

The `bound` property of the spatial filter object lets you filter on ranges of dimension values. 
You can define rectangular, radius, and polygon filter bounds.

#### Rectangular

The `rectangular` bound has the following elements:

|Property|Description|Required|
|--------|-----------|--------|

> |`minCoords`|The list of minimum dimension coordinates in the form [latitude, longitude]|yes|
> |`maxCoords`|The list of maximum dimension coordinates in the form [latitude, longitude]|yes|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`minCoords`|The list of minimum dimension coordinates in the form [x, y]|yes|
|`maxCoords`|The list of maximum dimension coordinates in the form [x, y]|yes|
```

#### Radius

The `radius` bound has the following elements:

|Property|Description|Required|
|--------|-----------|--------|
|`coords`|Origin coordinates in the form [x, y]|yes|
|`radius`|The float radius value|yes|

#### Polygon

The `polygon` bound has the following elements:

|Property|Description|Required|
|--------|-----------|--------|

> |`abscissa`|Horizontal coordinate for the corners of the polygon|yes|
> |`ordinate`|Vertical coordinate for the corners of the polygon|yes|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`abscissa`|Horizontal coordinates for the corners of the polygon|yes|
|`ordinate`|Vertical coordinates for the corners of the polygon|yes|
```
https://github.com/apache/druid/blob/master/processing/src/main/java/org/apache/druid/collections/spatial/search/PolygonBound.java#L82-L85
